I have some original documentary stuff, you know, on film, you know, and the posters you saw, and then artist conceptions and illustrations and all kinds of audio-visual material.
Career for libraries is how to keep it, catalog it, and use it.
But I see this as an integral part of the collection along with printed matter.
And even though I respect printed matter more than I do film,
and audio, it's all part of the writer's, either his life or his work.
And adaptations, I have a lot of stuff on Faulkner adaptations, and I hope in the years to come I'll have a lot of stuff on the Israeli adaptations and things in television and reportage and things like that.
I asked you yesterday, and you did, and I wanted you to tell me what you wanted to know.
The Feldman catalogs, in the early years,
as opposed to Marguerite Cohn and Henry Winning and John Cohn from Seven Gables tended to be a little more pricey items for recollection.
So that I was getting Feldman catalogs without visiting Feldman because it was a little out of my reach.
It was very early that I would rather acquire twenty five dollar books.
Twenty?
Five dollar books instead of
five twenty five dollar books and up and down the line.
That's what my wife and I used to discuss and she says I'm wrong I should get the hundred dollar book I can always come back and get the five dollar books and I said no it's not true but once I reach to a hundred it's easy to start buying hundred and two hundred dollar items and you know the old accent the first time you paid fifteen cents you said my god
And I can't afford a 25, but the first time you paid 25, you found you could afford 25, and then you went to 40.
So I was very disciplined in that.
I still am.
I thought of Feldman as being that kind of a seller.
I didn't want to be that kind of a buyer.
Based upon the catalogs that I either saw or was sent.
I wasn't ready for Feldman, and maybe today I'm still not ready for Feldman.
But
In one of the later years, it may have been the last year he was a bookseller, I remember somehow calling him, or somebody contacted me that Feldman had some alia, impulsive.
The least I could do was at least see it and then tell them.
It's becoming a little clear now.
At least inform them of what it is that I had seen.
It's possible it was a scholar.
wound up, we used to go to New York a lot, so I went to see him, and he knew where I was, and told me.
I didn't know who you were.
I was on his mailing list.
It's possible I had bought an item from him somewhere in the past.
I don't recall.
I haven't shown this to too many people.
active acquiring this material for sale.
It has not been as yet consigned to me.
It was family material.
What do you think he was dealing with?
It could have been Vicki, or it could have been Dean, or it could have been Louise, or it could have been... It wasn't Jill.
It wasn't the wife.
Well, Jill's the daughter.
I mean, it wasn't Jill, but she was a legal heir, wasn't she?
We still have that problem.
that Jill was the trustee.
I mean, you think maybe some of this stuff... It never acquired anything from any of the family, which is why I'm only with the family.
By the time I was offered some books, which I thought were overpriced and I didn't need, from one of them.
And I turned it down.
Did he indicate to you that... Lou and Carl used to deal with the family.
Did... Did... You mean Lou Brodsky or Lou Feltman?
Feltman.
Oh, Lou Brodsky and Carl dealt with the family.
I didn't.
Did Feldman indicate to you that there was a lot more where this came from?
We have.
It was my opinion that the whole drawer was the material, because there was a lot of stuff.
The drawer was maybe this deep, and it was loaded, and it had the equivalent of the blue books.
You know, the little books where you would write things?
I found it terribly, terribly uninteresting to me.
And I was very grateful that I was not being quoted individually on the individual items because we communicated.
Feldman and I communicated that things were not priced individually and weren't even priced, period.
Was he offering them to you or was he showing them to you?
I think he was showing to me with the possibility that he would later offer them to me.
at the appropriate time.
I expressed no interest at all.
I think I expressed no interest at all, which is why I was never contacted afterwards.
I told him this was not my field of collecting.
And I made up some little, this is wonderful, but I thought it was awful.
I thought that the Faulkner Juvenalia was awful.
Not this stuff.
This wasn't
stories.
This was work done when he was in grade school.
This was math and English.
Were there any letters?
Were there anything?
I don't think so.
What he showed me was juvenalia coming from schoolwork.
That's the way I remember it, what he showed me.
Maybe there was more material, but what he showed me and described it was what I just said to you.
I don't know what Texas got, and I don't know how you understand what was there, but that's what I am.
My understanding was that this came from Faulkner's school work and probably kept by his mother.
And somehow when the mother died, it went on to somebody else.
That's my impression.
Okay.
You think he was using you to set up a straw that, that's my word, not yours, but he could say to whomever, hey, look, I got a guy who's looking at this stuff.
It's very possible.
Do you have any impressions of the little felon that you can share with me?
I only was with him a couple times.
The fact that I didn't do any business with him sort of was the way I... It wasn't I was afraid of him.
I thought it was a little pompous, and I thought that that was not the kind of a man that I could have time with.
You know, comparing him with Peter Howard is unfortunate.
You know, I thought he was a cold person.
Yeah, and the fact that he was only interested, telling me that, and not discussing anything else about Faulkner, because I think I said something, and I could tell he wasn't interested.
He was seeing me just for that drawer.
Tell me anything else in the shop, and I wasn't interested in anything in the shop.
Oh, I was interested in anything in the shop, but I don't remember him.
spending any concentration or attention to me seeing anything else in the shot.
I know that I was there only for that show until.
Well, I was in Texas.
Say that again.
Most booksellers are left.
Most booksellers are... Posenbach, probably, and I never met him, was one of the anxious people
Alive.
Except to the people that recorded.
I've been through all of his letters.
I don't know his name.
Burnett was obnoxious, except in the staged presentations of when they were really operating.
They could be anything.
They were plastic.
Books this man in other fields are like that.
But there's something about booksellers.
I also found it very, very depressing.
to find out that from Saul Malkin to Jake Zeitlin to the great guy in 57, Jack Barkfield.
I mean, the alcoholism was appalling to me of that generation.
And Prover doesn't even drink, I don't think.
You know what I'm saying?
And Glenn Horowitz doesn't touch lick.
It was like in between, you know, the generation.
And I found that very, very revolting.
I mean, these people would be drunk while they're working also, not just drinking privately.
Am I right or wrong?
And it was part of their charm, but not to me.
So if you ask me what I thought about Lou Feldman, I mean, I don't know.
It's tough to put him in the bag with the rest, but I mean, he wasn't too different.
That generation was different.
These guys were self-made men, and they did it with the theatrical and the drinking.
George Deese.
Huh?
All of them.
I never knew him.
Well, he died.
He didn't know early.
I mean, these guys were theatrical performers, right?
They were.
Sure.
I know that.
And it was very studied in Sullivan's case.
I mean, he did this.
He really... Right.
I never.
Shirley kept telling me, you better get there, get there, get there, go see.
Close them back, and the success is...
And I never was in their room.
She says, you should see that room.
I never did.
Has Shirley supported your collecting?
At the beginning, she actually pushed me into spending the money.
Why?
She saw that I wanted it.
She saw that a man should have his own thing as well as a woman while they're doing things together.
So this was my thing.
It wasn't golf.
It wasn't drinking with my buddies.
It wasn't card playing.
I never did any of that after college.
I never played cards.
I understand it, but I can't conceive of it.
Are you that serious?
I mean, don't you like to laugh at me?
Oh, that the reason I stopped playing cards is that I was the only one that wasn't serious.
That's why I stopped.
These guys were deadly serious about playing cards.
They weren't playing cards at the front of us.
It's the opposite, I think, of what you just said.
And golf the same way.
I was trying to have fun with golf and these guys are killing one another.
You're not killing us.
It's a killing game.
The competition is gone.
And I'm not competitive in games.
I'm not a game player.
You're very competitive.
What mean?
I'm competitive in games.
I'm competitive as an individual.
I'm not playing a formal game.
Not organized game.
Organized games.
I've all been ignoring these minds in one of the books, Groucho Marx, and a couple of the film scripts, some of the early, you know, you never want to be a member of any organization who wants to be for a member.
Always.
It's me.
I don't want to be a member of any organization who wants to be for a member.
I don't want to be a member of an organization that doesn't want me.
Rick, you said you're all coveted.
What do you think?
There's something missing.
There's something missing in our discussion that shouldn't be missing.
And that is?
And that is an act of creativity.
I've got to show you my little...
collection.
It's only that wide.
With Arthur Kessler's Act of Creation, you know, trying to describe what is creation, you know, creativity, because that's what I think I'm dealing with.
And that's what you're dealing with.
Collecting or trying to talk about the Michelangelo thing, you know, God and Adam, you know, where they touch, you
A, there's one fact, and it's only begins of a poem or a couple sentences of a paragraph of a story or novel.
I sit in and then look at it and then walk away and then 20 years from now quote those three lines and then somehow those three lines got them thinking about something else.
I mean, what is that?
Impulse.
What do we call it?
I mean, is it even worthwhile talking about it?
And I say, I don't know how we cannot talk about it.
You're talking about God-like stuff here.
What is it that makes somebody acquire other people's creativity?
Impulse.
Let me talk a little bit about that.
Go ahead.
What is it?
What is it that makes a book, you know, sit there in that goddamn store for 50 years?
What is it that makes a piece of crap fly out of there?
I'm talking about actions now.
I'm not talking about thoughts.
I'm talking about actual physical happening.
I'm talking about musings or thinking.
I'm into physical.
Actions.
Actions, reactions.
Magic moments is really what I'm talking about.
I'm not talking about want.
I'm talking about an ongoing, amazing amount of these things happening every single day and night.
About unique things that happen once a year.
I'm talking about every single day.
There's books here and there's books there and there's authors here and there's pieces of paper.
I'm talking about creativity is really what I'm talking about.
If your book is history, what I use is creativity.
Let's ignore it.
It's at your peril.
I'm not sure how you can do with it, what you can do with it, but I don't want you to ignore it.
We're not talking about passive matter here.
I'm not talking about inactive people or inactive materials.
I'm not talking about institutions that are basically dying.
I'm talking about lost worlds and lost epochs and generation and that's over and all that stuff.
I think that what I'm talking about is a combination of ongoing
creativity, which has always been there and will always be there.
And I'll describe it a little bit like this.
Bucky Fuller that I admire like mad.
You know that.
Not as an architect, not as a form giver, but as a... Well, I call it a form giver.
I call Frank Lloyd Wright and Vandero and Corbusier form givers.
They never even passed, they never even went to college, these guys.
They never had a university degree.
Faulkner never had a university degree.
You were in America without a university degree as a horseshit.
He argues against him, naturally.
Opposite.
But he said, all the energy, he didn't say most, all the energy that has ever existed for Earth, which is our planet.
It's not going up in smoke over there.
It's still there.
The fact that it's hanging around a little up in the air doesn't mean it's gone.
We just don't know how to recapture it.
No, why didn't you put any basis on it?
Is this just the purpose of discussion?
No, trying to stimulate.
Also the continuum.
I mean, you don't have to worry that you're losing energy.
We worry about that all the time, that we're losing energy, right?
And we have to find new pieces.
We've never lost any energy.
So what I'm suggesting is, you don't have to believe it or not believe it, but I'm suggesting that we've never lost any creativity, and the creativity we're living with all the time.
It's not a question of waiting for another Fifth Symphony.
It's being done all the time, and why don't we pay attention?
And in the field of book collecting, this is one of the things that jates.
I think this is energy in the book collecting.
We're talking about capturing creativity.
Forget about immortality now.
We've already talked about that in Chronology.
I'm talking about that every single minute.
Something's going on here.
It's bigger than Huntington.
It's bigger than Huntington's collection.
It's bigger than Huntington's utilization or Huntington's works or even Huntington or the booksellers.
All Huntington did was repeat what other people have done and what other people are doing, et cetera, et cetera.
That's all I'm saying.
Is book collecting a way for you to grab a hold of this energy?
Is it necessary to have a first edition?
I told you the rules are with the birth and only with the death, and that doesn't even stop.
It goes on after the death.
What is the birth?
The birth is not the publication of the book.
It's the first time he wrote down something.
But you've been curious when you thought about it, but I mean, that's hard to... Well, we can't capture that.
But so you try to get as close to that creative moment, that creative explosion, as you can.
Well, that's why we collect manuscripts.
That's why we, ultimately, we...
The Serious Collector attempts to find letters that predates the idea that this guy's going to write Sound of Fury.
So there's some letters that you can find where Faulkner's already talking about the Sound of Fury.
He's talking about the characters in the Sound of Fury.
spitting them out in some short stories, but I'm talking about a letter that talks about something that's going to come out later as a part of the sound theory.
You follow me?
I'm talking about the chronology.
This is the way it is.
I'm not suggesting that you have to go along with it.
I'm just telling you that's the way it is.
I'm trying to elucidate it.
Because it's a stage in the process.
Well, of course.
You can't say that's not important.
Everything is important.
Everything identifiable is of equal value.
You place very high value on the uncorrected proof.
Very high.
The word uncorrected proof really means advanced copy and wrappers.
Because there's nothing that's going to be proofed further than the uncorrected proofs.
Am I right or wrong?
That's correct.
So we only know if there's a difference if somebody will sit down and nobody sits down anymore.
Is that correct?
Does anybody sit down?
and say this is not an uncorrected proof.
This is the same word for word as in the book.
Well, that's called the collation.
That's the Hinman collator.
How many times in the last 30 years have you looked in the Hinman collator?
I looked in the Hinman collator 40 years ago.
Well, that was created strictly for the first four-wheel shake.
I've never looked in one since.
I thought of buying one.
There's a guy out in Berkeley who actually has one.
I should have one.
I haven't thought about it in years, but I always thought I should have one.
I mean, if I'm talking uncorrected proof, what am I doing?
Am I waiting for somebody else to tell me that that's worthless?
Would you really go through every page?
Have I had a hymn and call later?
Take one proof in one book and then say, that stands for most of them.
I'd say, or I'd take three.
And if two out of three, there wasn't any changes,
I would say that's why uncorrected proofs really aren't very important.
Well, they are, because I'll tell you, I get a lot of them, and they're not just fiction.
Have you ever found a change in any of your uncorrected proofs?
Oh, absolutely.
Good for you.
Absolutely, in The Beat Queen by Louise Erickson.
I don't have one.
I didn't show you my American Indian fiction.
I told you about the Bob Stone thing, where I called them and said, you've got the liver on the wrong side of the bar.
Yeah, well, they don't have the proofs, so I can't even have anything to be fair with.
And I can show it to you.
Okay, all right.
So...
Am I wrong in saying that that's worth two or three times the book?
Assuming that, first of all, it precedes.
And if it is different, then it's got to be worth at least twice as much as the next one, because it precedes.
In regard to grasping or embracing, that's perhaps the better word, embracing these authors, that part of it is where they discuss
I find that the more I want to talk about their work, the less they want to talk about their work.
If I'm talking about something else, they want to talk about their work.
I find it very hard to communicate with any of them.
It was going the other way.
But that's the reason you started doing that, I guess.
You just found it wasn't very successful.
No.
I would say no to the last question.
The reason that I associate with the authors is that I consider the creator more important than I do the creative.
Dorita believes that it's Faulkner is more important than The Sound of the Fury.
What do you, Faulkner, continue to exist?
It's more important than the book?
You know, the new critics say, don't even consider the life.
Look at the text.
Well, that's Dorita.
That's bullshit.
He's doing it.
He's self-declaiming a known fact that it's magic.
a single reader in a single work, which I've discussed with you before.
But past that, I don't want to say anything more about it.
It is magic.
I mean, but don't make statements about it at the exclusion of other things.
In Sound of the Fury, you're talking about Faulkner's life as he sees it in America, in a very sophisticated act, and not identifying himself as any one of the single characters, which is a great feat.
This is art and this is real.
But given my druthers, I continue to state that it's Faulkner that he is a greater, Faulkner himself is greater than any of his single accomplishments.
I'm not sure Faulkner is greater than the total of all his accomplishments, but I can tell you it's Melville that we should salute and not Moby Dick.
We salute Moby Dick as a great book, but, I mean, the accomplishment of Herman Melville, the life of Herman Melville is just... Don't get bogged down in any of the single works.
You know what I'm saying?
Obviously, yeah.
I do say, very strongly, because I'm committed to this in my collectivism, that every Faulkner is of equal value.
It's stupid to say that the crummy short stories of his early years is equal to Sound and the Fury, but I'm making that statement to make a point.
That Sound and the Fury is Faulkner.
So was the early short stories of Faulkner.
So in order to be consistent, I say that you can't say that this one isn't as good as the other one.
It's all him.
We just don't study it properly.
I think I'd rather read
As I lay dying, I'm saying.
Yeah, but I'll take the Hamlet and you can have all the rest of them.
I think the Hamlet is the greatest thing to look at.
What the Hamlet is superb.
You know why the Hamlet beats As I Lay Dying?
It's for analogy.
The harmony and the Hamlet to be a more equal mixture than the As I Lay Dying comic.
And not enough tragedy to think.
A big, big relationship with comedy and tragedy as being life.
In terms of entertainment, you know.
But it's what's retained that we have to live with after that.
The moment of the pleasure is gone.
In retaining it, you remember the pleasure.
I think you can remember it with pleasure, too.
You can remember with pleasure.
All of that.
But what I'm saying is you really move out of that pretty fast.
Remember, the so-called total pleasure becomes somewhat less than total pleasure, and it's also got other factors in there.
Here we go again with the movement in time.
I believe you have to be intellectual.
I am.
You have to be.
I think that's pretty obvious.
Yes, I am.
I find myself totally absorbed.
I find it as godlike.
And I gather you don't like to waste time.
Well, nobody does, but I mean, I really try to live my life in saying that that cousin of mine is a waste of time.
You know, I mean, I live my life pretty rigid.
Look at that beautiful cardinal.
No, we get a few.
All right, there's less and less birds all the time.
I don't know where the hell the birds are, and surely he'll tell me it's the wrong time of life or time of day or something.
But we used to have a lot more birds.
I don't know where the hell the birds are.
That's beautiful.
You know it pretty well?
In retrospect, the private libraries have a higher form, but it's a different plateau.
And I think in terms of libraries,
I'm sure it's the other way around with most people.
They think in terms of collections and then they think of libraries.
I always thought of libraries before the collections because I used to spend a lot of time when I was little in libraries.
So it seems like work from that direction as opposed to, you know, they're different than most of the people that you talk to, the book collectors,
They don't really come from libraries.
They use libraries, they run libraries, but they don't really have a background and remembrance of being where they started collecting, as opposed to later.
Because I was in libraries before I started collecting.
Am I on to something here?
A lot of them started collecting and then started finding out what libraries were doing with their collections, and were libraries on their collections.
It seemed like I was working with libraries before I was working with questions.
You feel the one thing you showed me and talked about is the private library.
I know, but the private library can... But it's too late for the private library to be recomposed as a Morgan Library or a Huntington.
So my private libraries then go into other libraries, but they don't live on
collectively as they were.
Am I right?
There's nobody—I mean, Brodsky didn't build a building either.
You know, the fact that he's a room and a building is the distinction I'm making, as opposed to a separate building.
You know what I'm saying?
So that's over.
The last one to do a library all by himself are now the ones that are doing libraries in connection with—correct me if I'm wrong—in connection with the art museum.
There's a guy out in California, Santa Barbara.
How do you do that?
Say the word.
Toby Olsman is working on collections where most of my wonderful friends that have supplied me with wonderful books and material for 30 years find themselves hard pressed to supply.
Because either I'm buying new books from local sources or
I was interested in manuscript or unusual material.
It's hard to keep up and supply me with Israeli, opiates, even American Indians.
They find that the books that they have in their stock, I bought years ago.
And the ones I'm looking for, nobody has.
So you've kind of become your own scout, is that right?
I don't have to go to the Soviet Union for English editions.
I have to go into 4,000 stores in the United States, and I don't have the time anymore to find four books that I don't own.
And I have been to London so many times, and each time I'm in London, I find either three or five only books that I don't have.
in Soviet literature and English.
And I find that very interesting.
And yet I lack a lot of... See, the formula, the conception, what else?
Only black here.
I don't know why.
The idea of the Soviet collection is
It's kind of a spin-off of the Israeli collection.
I have 1917.
But, I mean, was that one of the reasons that you considered the Soviet collection?
Absolutely.
Of the kind of thinking they wanted to be the Israeli collection.
Phronologically, you are correct.
The Soviet period is identifiable as October 1917.
And I've got some 1918 and 1919, which are like crazy, in English.
Again, I skip over Gorky.
I skip over Gorky because of the enormity of the material.
Again, Gorky is in some ways more Russian than he is Soviet, and I'm able to slip out of the trap so that I go post-Gorky, and everybody understands what I'm talking about.
How about Solzhenitsyn?
I don't even have enough room to put him in the main room.
He's up in the attic.
Absolutely.
He was an Israeli immigrant.
He was an Israeli who found they couldn't live in Israel anymore.
They still classify them as Israeli.
Is T.S.
Eliot an American who won the Nobel Prize?
That's right.
I even got a triple header.
I have Russians who wrote in the Soviet Union, stayed in Israel a few years, and now are writing in America.
That's part of my challenge and part of my burden.
How do you classify somebody like I.G.
Singer?
I don't.
He doesn't fit in any of my collections.
His first book in English is personally signed to me.
We have some of his books, but they're not
part of the collection.
He's a man... I would say, if I was collecting Yiddish literature, then I could qualify Isaac Ray Steven Singer as Yiddish literature.
The problem is, the problem is, you know, it wouldn't matter whether he came from Poland and lived in New York.
He qualified as a Yiddish writer, and he would like that.
Well, if he writes in Yiddish, he must.
Well, wrong.
We know that as well.
Toby also says it's been many, many years since that man writes his own translator, and his money comes from his English printed books.
His money does not come from his Yiddish printed books, and the man has broken through the barrier and acknowledged that writing for the English reader
He has no world career, and he stopped writing in Yiddish past the point that he's a Yiddish writer, but he's already projected in how it's going to sound in English.
Are you following me?
I know this for sure, because this is what the Russian writers have been doing.
This is what Joseph Brodsky's enigma is.
This is what the Israelis have a problem.
They know, on the side, that they're limited in their Hebrew language.
readership, so that while he's writing in Hebrew, he's already thinking in terms of English, and he's admitted this to me.
So when I told him translations, and I know these agonies, Joseph Brodsky used to have somebody translate for him.
He now translates his own material, basically, and is terribly confused, and it's a tragic event for him.
How does it come out in English?
Oh, it comes out in Russian, so it's hard for me to tell you how it comes out in English.
The good news is, it's the bad news for him, but it's the good news for me, because he's writing dialogue for English, I claim, that due to the wonderful socialism,
Well, the idea that these people have to break out of one language in order to have international careers in other languages, the main language being English, that they have to, especially when they read and understand and speak English, these people, that they have the complete understanding that they're really mixed up now.
They're schizophrenic.
Amistad wants to be a Hebrew writer, but he's already tied in with his idea that he has to be thinking the ultimate, which is the English.
Discovered this many years ago.
The breakout.
I have a little described picture from him.
He says, the breakout.
He's signing his English edition.
We're talking about the wonderful world of translation as a collectible.
And I'm reminding you that there will be collections somewhere of a translated work
from classics on through.
And I'm telling you, this is a wonderful thing.
If I was talking to kids on what to collect, I would encourage them.
Magic there.
Exposure, magic.
I'm very, very involved in this.
I think about it all the time because I'm dealing in this all the time.
Let's transcend a little bit, the idea that somebody collects only in English.
Is that correct?
It is, yeah.
I don't know any type of those collections.
I basically still am collecting English, but then I go... The theory is follow the flag.
I mean, you don't... Yeah, well, that's what I like, follow the flag.
But what I'm saying is, my basic interest in Pasternak and Babel comes backwards into the original from the English.
My obsession is every single thing in English.
And, of course, now I like the Russian things.
I love them.
You know, especially as they become more and more valuable, they become more and more enamored of my own... But, I mean, I really don't know what the hell I'm doing when I'm buying a Russian book or a Hebrew book or an Arabic book.
So I'm all by myself, and I don't know.
I just do the best I can.
So you are collecting things that it's impossible for you to read?
I've got a pile of Arabic, Palestinian or Arabic, whatever you want to call it.
I can't even catalog it because I don't even know what it is anymore.
I don't even know who the writer is.
Why are you collecting it?
Because it's part of the genre.
You don't know if it's good or bad.
You have to rely on what other people said.
In Arabic, it seems like ten years ago I knew every one of these writers as being somewhere on a piece of paper.
I had two or three people give me the list of the leading writers in Arabic.
And I used to check my list against them, and I used to make two piles.
The ones where their names appeared, and then the names of the books where they didn't appear.
And then I never got to the second stage of asking people about that second tier.
So I'm not that bad.
I mean, I have methodology here.
I'm on my way.
And I used to have a couple kids send me for 65 cents a piece from Haifa, these books.
I told you, 65 cents.
And this was retail.
And they made something on it.
Oh, they used to ask me for $20 every time I got a package.
$20.
How many years did you remember?
These are the insanely high prices.
A few books that you paid thousands for.
I remember anything about in between.
Have you ever spent too much in your abuse?
Single item?
Yeah, very good.
I never felt badly about overspending for a single item.
I've always felt badly over the years.
in buying, like I showed you, $3,300 worth of books at the same time in six packages.
I feel I'd spent too much money for something that I can't absorb for maybe a half a year, badly in the years when I couldn't afford it, running up $200,000 of Marguerite Clowns when I should have spent $60.
I always felt badly in overspending overspending, but I didn't relate it to the value of the book that I bought.
So it's an answer a little different.
Of course, don't you feel bad that you had spent $300 all of a sudden and you say, my God, I spent $300.
Charles Feinberg told me, Charles Feinberg told me, about a dime for a comic book.
I always had a dime for a comic book.
So Feinberg said, breakfast and lunch, you're thinking about real... People went hungry to buy books.
You say you split it.
Your success is a long thing.
I just wasn't sure.
This is semi-retirement where I sold some shares in our business.
I drew money out of the business in order to buy this license.
I gave up income in order to partly bought this because of the
I've got a question on that.
I partly bought this because of that room and the attic.
You understand?
But when you said you couldn't afford to pay, why would you phone $270?
I was only making $1,000 a month, drawing $1,000 a month out of the business to pay your $275 that I spent that one month.
I didn't spend $275 every month.
But when you said, did I ever feel sorry in spending a lot of money?
I didn't relate it to 2.75 for a book.
I related it to 2.75 for a bunch of material.
Never?
Never.
So, an item.
Or that I had to pick it off.
I didn't, well, I don't think of selling a book.
I'm deadly serious.
Meaning, I'm not interested in bi-play.
You know what I mean?
It's not the fun of the event.
I'm not getting an emotional high by buying or selling a book.
My emotional high comes from being involved in the fact that I'm even doing it.
It's a way of life, not an individual event.
What time is it?
I'm going to close this.
I think I'm creating thoroughly.
I see that was good.
What do people say?
People always say, how much?
How come you always have so much time to do what you want?
You know, I'm a little fanatic.
Of course you have enough time.
It's called energy level.
How can Joyce Carol Oates write all those books?
Well, I wish she took a little more time.
I wish I took just a little more time.
I think they'd do better books, is what I think.
Something that's wonderful, what?
I didn't follow a thrill.
Beck is back.
Bruce Carl Oates wrote a book about a nutty book collector bothering her, which may or may not be me.
Oh, is that right?
Beck is back, it's in there?
No, Beck is back is Updike.
I know that, but you say where he thinks he's the imaginary Beck, and Beck gets bothered by this lunatic collector.
who's interested in the signed books and the variant editions and Bothers Beck.
Did you ever read that?
Yeah.
Okay.
Right.
That's you, you think?
No.
The one that's me is the short story that I can't remember that Joseph Carol Oates did years ago on the same paint, her involvement with somebody asking her to sign a limited first edition or something.
Originary author, but she is the author.
There's other things, and I stopped pursuing it.
But this is one, and this is two.
How many more are there?
I don't know.
There's got to be more, because every one of these writers gets involved sooner or later and writes about it.
You follow?
It's part of their life.
It's very interesting.
You could make a neat little collection of that.
Well, I'm going to have my opening chapter.
Writers, which they consider to be nutty,
book collectors, admirers, and collectors of their work.
And it's incestuous and it's just wonderful.
And this is examples, two examples.
I can't think of the title.
I wish you could.
Tell me the difference in your mind between a collection and a library.
you're building private libraries.
I mean, we've never actually asked you to distinguish between them.
Well, I don't know if a single collection can call itself a library, but I believe that my collection
become a private library, both in the physical sense and the way they're handled and the way they're shelved and the way they're displayed.
The exhibit tables that I have is an example of that.
I think using the exhibit table carries it from the room of collections to the actual library.
The fact that you function, the functions that you do.
The use.
And the use other than your own as well.
Utilization is the magic word.
For people other than yourself.
Special collections basically are very confined
The fact that they're in a library, that there are many of them.
Well, the fact that they're in a library brings it to a different plateau.
And what is that plateau?
It's utilization.
because I didn't have the equipment to become a professional architect.
My use of architects and my affinity with architects and my house architect and my own business and my book collection and everything, I come as close to being one as is humanly possible.
analogy with my book collection.
Because I'm not a professional writer and I don't write, my attachment to writing and my love of writing and my use of writing is as close as a human being can get to being a professional writer.
I'm living vicariously and it has part to do with my plight.
The books are almost a surrogate for you that you would like to be able to do this.
That is separate from my treatment of the books as primary and separate from my use of the books in touch with their mortality.
I mean, it's another thing.
Another layer.